.\" LICENSE
.\"
.\" This software program is released under the terms of a license agreement between you ('Licensee') and Intel.  Do not use or load this software or any associated materials (collectively, the 'Software') until you have carefully read the full terms and conditions of the LICENSE located in this software package.  By loading or using the Software, you agree to the terms of this Agreement.  If you do not agree with the terms of this Agreement, do not install or use the Software.
.\"
.\" * Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
.\"
.TH dcbtool 8 "March 23, 2012"
.SH NAME
dcbtool \- manage the Data Center Bridging (DCB) settings of a CEE DCB interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dcbtool -h
.br
.B dcbtool -v
.br
.B dcbtool [-rR]
.br
.BI "dcbtool [-rR] [" "command" "] [" "command arguments" "]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dcbtool
is used to query and set the DCB settings of a
Converged Enhanced Ethernet (CEE) DCB capable Ethernet interface.  It connects to the client interface
of
.B lldpad
to perform these operations.
.B dcbtool
will operate in interactive mode if it is executed without a
\fIcommand\fR.
In interactive mode,
.B dcbtool
also functions as an event listener and will print out events
received from
.B lldpad
as they arrive. It will use libreadline for interactive input
when available. 802.1Qaz DCBX is not controllable from
.B dcbtool
instead
.B lldptool
can be used in this case. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
show the
.B dcbtool
usage message
.TP
.B \-v
shows
.B dcbtool
version information
.TP
.B \-r
display the raw
.B lldpad
client interface messages as well as the readable output.
.TP
.B \-R
display only the raw
.B lldpad
client interface messages
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B help
shows the dcbtool usage message
.TP
.B ping
test command.
.B lldpad
responds with "PPONG" if the client interface is operational.
.TP
.B license
displays
.B dcbtool
license information
.TP
.B quit
exit from interactive mode

.PP
The following commands interact with
.B lldpad
to manage the daemon and DCB features on DCB capable interfaces.

.B dcbtool
general configuration commands:
.TP
.RB "<" "gc" "|" "go" ">" " dcbx"
Get the configured or operational legacy version of the DCBX
protocol which will be supported by
.B lldpad.
The configured version, if different from the operational version,  will take effect after
.B lldpad
is restarted.
.TP
.BR "sc dcbx v:" "[" "cin" "|" "cee" "|" "force-cin" "|" "force-cee" "]"
Set the legacy version of DCBX which will be supported by
.B lldpad
the next time it is started.
.br
Information about the CIN version can be found at:
.br
<http://download.intel.com/technology/eedc/dcb_cep_spec.pdf>
.br
Information about the CEE version can be found at:
.br
<http://www.ieee802.org/1/files/public/docs2008/az-wadekar-dcbx-capability-exchange-discovery-protocol-1108-v1.01.pdf>
.br
The dcbx setting is a global setting and changes only take effect when
.B lldpad
is restarted.  The default DCBX version used is the IEEE standard version.
If a pre-IEEE DCBX version is received (per port) which matches the dcbx setting, then
.B lldpad
will fall back to the configured global dcbx setting.  If the dcbx setting
is set to either 'force-cin' or 'force-cee' then any port doing DCBX will
start out in the corresponding legacy DCBX mode.
.PP
DCB per-interface commands:
.TP
\fBgc \fR<\fIifname\fR> <\fIfeature\fR>
get configuration of \fIfeature\fR on interface \fIifname\fR.
.TP
\fBgo \fR<\fIifname\fR> <\fIfeature\fR>
get operational status of \fIfeature\fR on interface \fIifname\fR.
.TP
\fBgp \fR<\fIifname\fR> <\fIfeature\fR>
get peer configuration of \fIfeature\fR on interface \fIifname\fR.
.TP
\fBsc \fR<\fIifname\fR> <\fIfeature\fR> <\fIargs\fR>
set the configuration of \fIfeature\fR on interface \fIifname\fR.
.PP
.I feature
may be one of the following:
.TP
.B dcb
DCB state of the port
.TP
.B pg
priority groups
.TP
.B pfc
priority flow control
.TP
\fBapp:\fR<\fIsubtype\fR>
application specific data
.TP
\fBll:\fR<\fIsubtype\fR>
logical link status
.PP
.I subtype
can be:
.TP
.BR "0" "|" "fcoe"
Fiber Channel over Ethernet (FCoE)
.TP
.BR "1" "|" "iscsi"
Internet Small Computer System Interface (iSCSI)
.TP
.BR "2" "|" "fip"
FCoE Initialization Protocol (FIP)
.PP
.I args
can include:
.TP
.BR "e:" "<" "0" "|" "1" ">"
controls feature enable
.TP
.BR "a:" "<" "0" "|" "1" ">"
controls whether the feature is advertised via DCBX to the peer
.TP
.BR "w:" "<" "0" "|" "1" ">"
controls whether the feature is willing to change its operational
configuration based on what is received from the peer
.TP
.RI "[" "feature specific args" "]"
arguments specific to a DCB feature

.PP
Feature specific arguments for
.BR "dcb" ":"
.TP
.BR "on" "|" "off"
enable or disable DCB for the interface.  The
.B go
and
.B gp
commands are not needed for the
.B dcb
feature.  Also, the
.RI "enable(" "e" "), advertise(" "a" ") and willing(" "w" ")"
arguments are not required.

.PP
Feature specific arguments for
.BR "pg" ":"
.TP
.BI "pgid:" "xxxxxxxx"
Priority group ID for the 8 priorities.  From left to right
(priorities 0-7),
.I x
is the corresponding priority group ID value, which
can be
.I 0-7
for priority groups with bandwidth allocations or
.I f
(priority group ID 15) for the unrestricted priority group.

.TP
.BI "pgpct:" "x" "," "x" "," "x" "," "x" "," "x" "," "x" "," "x" "," "x"
Priority group percentage of link bandwidth.  From left to right
(priority groups 0-7),
.I x
is the percentage of link bandwidth allocated
to the corresponding priority group.  The total bandwidth must equal 100%.

.TP
.BI "uppct:" "x" "," "x" "," "x" "," "x" "," "x" "," "x" "," "x" "," "x"
Priority percentage of priority group bandwidth.  From left to right
(priorities 0-7),
.I x
is the percentage of priority group bandwidth
allocated to the corresponding priority.  The sum of percentages for
priorities which belong to the same priority group must total 100% (except
for priority group 15).

.TP
.BI "strict:" "xxxxxxxx"
Strict priority setting.  From left to right (priorities 0-7),
.I x
.RB "is " "0" " or " "1" ".  " "1"
indicates that the priority may utilize all of the bandwidth allocated to
its priority group.

.TP
.BI "up2tc:" "xxxxxxxx"
Priority to traffic class mapping.  From left to right (priorities 0-7),
.I x
is the traffic class (0-7) to which the priority is mapped.

.PP
Feature specific arguments for
.BR "pfc" ":"
.TP
.BI "pfcup:" "xxxxxxxx"
Enable/disable priority flow control.  From left to right
(priorities 0-7),
.I x
.RB "is " "0" " or " "1" ".  " "1"
indicates that the corresponding priority is configured to transmit
priority pause.

.PP
.TP
Feature specific arguments for \fBapp:\fR<\fIsubtype\fR>:
The app features uses global enable and willing bits for all subtypes. To
remove or add subtypes to the TLV set the advertise bit.

.TP
.BI "appcfg:" "xx"
.I xx
is a hexadecimal value representing an 8 bit bitmap where
1 bits indicate the priorities which frames for the applications specified by
.I subtype
should use. The lowest order bit maps to priority 0.

.PP
Feature specific arguments for \fBll:\fR<\fIsubtype\fR>:
.TP
\fBstatus:\fR[\fB0\fR|\fB1\fR]
For testing purposes, the logical link status may be set to 0 or 1.  This
setting is not persisted in the configuration file.

.SH EXAMPLES

.PP
Enable DCB on interface \fIeth2\fR
.PP
.B dcbtool sc eth2 dcb on

.PP
Assign priorities 0-3 to priority group 0, priorities 4-6 to priority group 1 and
priority 7 to the unrestricted priority.  Also, allocate 25% of link
bandwidth to priority group 0 and 75% to group 1.
.PP
.B dcbtool sc eth2 pg pgid:0000111f pgpct:25,75,0,0,0,0,0,0

.PP
Enable transmit of Priority Flow Control for priority 3 and assign FCoE to
priority 3.
.PP
.B dcbtool sc eth2 pfc pfcup:00010000
.br
.B dcbtool sc eth2 app:0 appcfg:08

.SH COPYRIGHT
dcbtool - DCB configuration utility
.br
Copyright(c) 2007-2012 Intel Corporation.
.BR
Portions of dcbtool are based on:
.IP hostapd-0.5.7
.IP Copyright
(c) 2004-2008, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>

.SH LICENSE
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms and conditions of the GNU General Public License,
version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.LP
This program is distributed in the hope it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for
more details.
.LP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin St - Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.LP
The full GNU General Public License is included in this distribution in
the file called "COPYING".
.SH SUPPORT
Contact Information:
open-lldp Mailing List <lldp-devel@open-lldp.org>

