.TH lldptool 8 "February 2010" "open-lldp" "Linux"
.SH NAME
evb \- Show / manipulate EVB TLV configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lldptool -t -i ethx -V evbCfg -c enableTx
.sp
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V evbCfg -c enableTx=[yes|no]
.sp
.B lldptool -t -i ethx -V evbCfg -c fmode
.sp
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V evbCfg -c fmode=[bridge|reflectiverelay]
.sp
.B lldptool -t -i ethx -V evbCfg -c capabilities
.sp
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V evbCfg -c capabilities=[rte|ecp|vdp|none]
.sp
.B lldptool -t -i ethx -V evbCfg -c rte
.sp
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V evbCfg -c rte=[<rte>]
.sp
.B lldptool -t -i ethx -V evbCfg -c vsis
.sp
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V evbCfg -c vsis=[<number of vsis>]
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The EVB TLV is a TLV to announce the station and bridge's edge virtual
bridging (evb) capabilities and request the bridge forwarding mode. If both
sides have agree on edge control protocol (ECP), VSI discovery protocol (VDP)
capabilities, both sides can exchange VDP TLV using ECP frames.
The vsis parameter will set the maximum number of VSIs and show the number
of currently configured VSIs.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B enableTx
Enables the EVB TLV to be transmitted
.TP
.B fmode
shows or sets the forwarding mode between bridge (default) or
reflectiverelay (RR).
.TP
.B capabilities
shows or sets the local capabilities that are announced to the adjacent
switch in the TLV. This parameter will accept any combination of rte, vdp or
ecp, separated by ",". Use the keyword "none" if you do not want to set any
capabilities.
.TP
.B rte
shows or set the local run time exponent (RTE). The RTE will be used as the
base for the timing of the ECP and VDP protocols.
.TP
.B vsis
shows or sets the number of virtual station interfaces (VSIs) that are
announced to the adjacent switch in the TLV. This parameter expects a number
between 0 and 65535.

.SH Theory of Operation
The EVB TLV is used to announce and exchange supported parameters between
the station and an adjacent switch.

If "reflectiverelay" is set as forwarding mode, the switch will allow
"reflection" of frames coming from different sources at the same port back
to the port. This will allow communication between virtual machines on the
same host via the switch.

The capabilities parameter is used to set RTE, ECP and VDP support. VDP TLVs
in ECP frames can only be exchanged if both sides agree on ECP and VDP as
capabilities. RTE will be used as the base timing parameter for ECP and VDP.

.SH EXAMPLE & USAGE
.TP
Display locally configured values for \fIeth8\fR
.B lldptool -t -i eth8 -V evbCfg
.TP
Display remotely configured values for \fIeth8\fR
.B lldptool -n -t -i eth8 -V evbCfg
.TP
Display wether evb tlv is configured for tx on \fIeth8\fR
.B lldptool -t -i eth8 -V evbCfg -c enableTx
.TP
Display the currently requested forwarding mode for \fIeth8\fR
.B lldptool -t -i eth8 -V evbCfg -c fmode
.TP
Set the forwarding mode to reflective relay
.B lldptool -T -i eth8 -V evbCfg -c fmode=reflectiverelay
.TP
Display the currently configured capabilities
.B lldptool -t -i ethx -V evbCfg -c capabilities
.TP
Set the locally possible capabilities to RTE, ECP and VDP
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V evbCfg -c capabilities=rte,ecp,vdp
.TP
Resets the locally possible capabilities to "none"
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V evbCfg -c capabilities=none
.TP
Display the locally configured value for RTE
.B lldptool -t -i ethx -V evbCfg -c rte
.TP
Set the value for RTE
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V evbCfg -c rte=[<rte>]
.TP
Display the configured maximum number of VSIs
.B lldptool -t -i ethx -V evbCfg -c vsis
.TP
Set the maximum number of VSIs
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V evbCfg -c vsis=[<number of vsis>]
.sp

.SH SOURCE
.TP
o
IEEE 802.1Qbg (http://www.ieee802.org/1/pages/802.1bg.html)

.SH NOTES
Currently the code in lldpad reflects draft 0 of the upcoming standard. EVB
TLVs on the wire can be decoded with wireshark > v1.6.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lldptool-vdp (8),
.BR lldptool (8),
.BR lldpad (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Jens Osterkamp
