.\" LICENSE
.\"
.\" This software program is released under the terms of a license agreement between you ('Licensee') and Intel.  Do not use or load this software or any associated materials (collectively, the 'Software') until you have carefully read the full terms and conditions of the LICENSE located in this software package.  By loading or using the Software, you agree to the terms of this Agreement.  If you do not agree with the terms of this Agreement, do not install or use the Software.
.\"
.\" * Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
.\"
.TH lldptool 8 "November 2, 2011"
.SH NAME
lldptool \- manage the LLDP settings and status of lldpad
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lldptool <command> [options] [argument]
.br


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lldptool
is used to query and configure
.B lldpad.
It connects to the client interface
of
.B lldpad
to perform these operations.
.B lldptool
will operate in interactive mode if it is executed without a
\fIcommand\fR.
In interactive mode,
.B lldptool
will also function as an event listener to print out events
as they are received asynchronously from
.B lldpad.
It will use libreadline for interactive input when available.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i [ifname]
specifies the network interface to which the command applies
.TP
.B -V [tlvid]
specifies the TLV identifier
.br
The tlvid is an integer value used to identify specific
LLDP TLVs.  The tlvid value is the Type value for types not equal
to 127 (the organizationally specific type). For organizationally specific
TLVs, the tlvid is the value represented by the 3 byte OUI and 1 byte
subtype - where the subtype is the lowest order byte of the tlvid.
.br
The tlvid can be entered as a numerical value (e.g. 10 or 0xa), or for
supported TLVs, as a keyword.
Review the
.B lldptool
help output to see the list of supported TLV keywords.
.TP
.B \-n
"neighbor" option for commands which can use it (e.g. get-tlv)
.TP
.B -g [bridge scope]
specify the bridge scope this command operates on. Allows to set and query
all LLDP TLV modules for "nearest_bridge" (short: "nb"),
"nearest_customer_bridge" ("ncb") and "nearest_nontpmr_bridge" ("nntpmrb")
group mac addresses. Configurations are saved into independent sections in
lldpad.conf.
If no bridge scope is supplied this default to "nearest bridge" to preserve the
previous behaviour.
.TP
.B \-c <argument list>
"config" option for TLV queries. Indicates that the query is
for the configuration elements for the specified TLV.  The
argument list specifies the specific elements to query.  If
no arguments are listed, then all configuration elements for
the TLV are returned.
.TP
.B \-r
show raw client interface messages
.TP
.B \-R
show only raw Client interface messages
.PP

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B license
show license information
.TP
.B \-h, help
show usage information
.TP
.B \-v, version
show version information
.TP
.B \-S, stats
get LLDP statistics
.TP
.B \-t, get-tlv
get TLV information
.TP
.B \-T, set-tlv
set TLV information
.TP
.B \-l, get-lldp
get LLDP parameters
.TP
.B \-L, set-lldp
set LLDP parameters
.TP
.B \-q, quit
exit from interactive mode
.PP

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B adminStatus
Argument for the
.B get-lldp/set-lldp
commands.  May be applied per port or globbally.  Valid values are: \fIdisabled\fR, \fIrx\fR, \fItx\fR, \fIrxtx\fR

.TP
.B enableTx
Argument for the
.B get-tlv/set-tlv
commands.  May be applied per port for a specified TLV.  Valid values are: \fIyes\fR, \fIno\fR.  If the DCBX TLV enableTx is set to \fIno\fR, then all of the DCB feature TLVs DCBX advertise settings will be turned off as well.  Setting enableTx to \fIyes\fR for a DCBX TLV will not affect the DCBX advertise settings.

.TP
.B ipv4
Argument for the
.B get-tlv/set-tlv
commands with respect to the Management Address TLV.  May be applied per port
or globally.  The get command will retrieve the configured value.  Set values
take the form of an IPv4 address: \fIA.B.C.D\fR

.TP
.B ipv6
Argument for the
.B get-tlv/set-tlv
commands with respect to the Management Address TLV.  May be applied per port
or globally.  The get command will retrieve the configured value.  Set values
take the form of an IPv6 address: \fI1111:2222:3333:4444:5555:6666:7777:8888\fR
and various shorthand variations.

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Configure LLDP adminStatus to Receive and Transmit for interface \fIeth2\fR
.B lldptool -L -i eth2 adminStatus=rxtx
.br
.B lldptool set-lldp -i eth2 adminStatus=rxtx

.TP
Disable the LLDP adminStatus for all interfaces
.B lldptool set-lldp adminStatus=disabled

.TP
Query the LLDP adminStatus for interface \fIeth3\fR
.B lldptool -l -i eth3 adminStatus
.br
.B lldptool get-lldp -i eth3 adminStatus

.TP
Query the LLDP statistics for interface \fIeth3\fR
.B lldptool -S -i eth3 adminStatus
.br
.B lldptool stats -i eth3 adminStatus

.TP
Query the local TLVs which are being transmitted for a given interface:
.B lldptool -t -i eth3
.br
.B lldptool get-tlv -i eth3

.TP
Query the received neighbor TLVs received on a given interface:
.B lldptool -t -n -i eth3
.br
.B lldptool get-tlv -n -i eth3

.TP
Query the value of the System Description TLV as received from the neighbor on a given interface:
.B lldptool -t -n -i eth3 -V sysDesc
.br
.B lldptool get-tlv -n -i eth3 -V 6

.TP
Disable transmit of the IEEE 802.3 MAC/PHY Configuration Status TLV for a given interface:
.B lldptool -T -i eth3 -V macPhyCfg enableTx=no
.br
.B lldptool set-tlv -i eth3 -V 0x120f01 enableTx=no

.TP
Enable transmit of the Port Description TLV for all interfaces:
.B lldptool -T -V portDesc enableTx=yes
.br
.B lldptool set-tlv -V 4 enableTx=yes

.TP
Query value of the transmit setting for the Port Description TLV for a given interface:
.B lldptool -t -V portDesc -c enableTx
.br
.B lldptool get-tlv -V 4 -c enableTx

.TP
Set a Management Address TLV on eth3 to carry IPv4 address 192.168.10.10
.B lldptool -T -i eth3 -V mngAddr ipv4=192.168.10.10

.TP
Set a Management Address TLV on eth3 to carry IPv6 address ::192.168.10.10
.B lldptool -T -i eth3 -V mngAddr ipv6=::192.168.10.10

.TP
Get the configured IPv4 address for the Management Address TLV on eth3
.B lldptool -t -i eth3 -V mngAddr -c ipv4

.TP
Get all configured attributes for the Management Address TLV on eth3
.B lldptool -t -i eth3 -V mngAddr -c

.TP
Query the current DCBX mode that will be used if lldpad is restarted. (this is not a persistent setting)
.B lldptool -t -i eth3 -V IEEE-DCBX -c mode

.TP
Reset the DCBX mode to be 'auto' (start in IEEE DCBX mode) after the next lldpad restart
.B lldptool -T -i eth3 -V IEEE-DCBX mode=reset

.TP
Enable transmit of the Edge Virtual Bridging TLV for interface eth4
.B lldptool -i eth4 -T -V evbCfg enableTx=yes

.TP
Configure EVB TLV to set reflective relay and RTE,ECP and VDP capabilities
.B lldptool -T -i eth4 -V evbCfg fmode=reflectiverelay
.br
.B lldptool -T -i eth4 -V evbCfg capabilities=rte,ecp,vdp

.TP
Enable transmit of the VDP for interface eth4
.B lldptool -i eth4 -T -V vdp enableTx=yes

.PP
Configurations per port have higher precedence than global configurations.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lldptool-ets (8),
.BR lldptool-pfc (8),
.BR lldptool-app (8),
.BR lldptool-med (8),
.BR dcbtool (8),
.BR lldpad (8)
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
lldptool - LLDP agent configuration utility
.br
Copyright(c) 2007-2010 Intel Corporation.
.BR
Portions of lldptool are based on:
.IP hostapd-0.5.7
.IP Copyright
(c) 2004-2008, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>

.SH LICENSE
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms and conditions of the GNU General Public License,
version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.LP
This program is distributed in the hope it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for
more details.
.LP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin St - Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.LP
The full GNU General Public License is included in this distribution in
the file called "COPYING".
.SH SUPPORT
Contact Information:
open-lldp Mailing List <lldp-devel@open-lldp.org>

