.TH lldptool 8 "February 2010" "open-lldp" "Linux"
.SH NAME
APP \- Show / manipulate APP TLV configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lldptool -t -i ethx -V APP [-c app]
.sp
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V APP [-d] app=prio,sel,pid
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The APP TLV is an informational TLV and will advertise the current configured
application table. If the peer APP TLV and a local APP TLV match the same
selector and protocol field the local parameter is used.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B app
Configures a local application data field using the three parameters
priority (prio), selector (sel), and protocol (pid). The -d option
can be provided to remove an entry which matches the three parameters.

.SH Theory of Operations
The APP TLV is an informational TLV for most end stations it is not expected
that setting APP data should be required. Peer data will be processed and
added to the application data table by default assuming there does not
already exist a local entry with matching selector and priority fields.

By adding APP data to the application table it is available for applications,
eg iscsid, to query. Applications query for a specific protocol and selector and
may use this data to map traffic to the corresponding traffic class.

.SH EXAMPLE & USAGE
.TP
Configure ISCSI application for priority 4 on \fIeth2\fR
.B lldptool -T -i eth2 -V APP app=4,2,3260
.TP
Configure FCoE application for priority 3 on \fIeth2\fR
.B lldptool -T -i eth2 -V APP app=3,1,35078
.TP
Remove FCoE application for priority 3 on \fIeth2\fR
.B lldptool -T -i eth2 -V APP -d app=3,1,35078
.TP
Display locally configured application table on \fIeth2\fR
.B lldptool -t -i eth2 -V APP -c app
.TP
Display last transmitted APP TLV on \fIeth2\fR
.B lldptool -t -i eth2 -V APP
.SH SOURCE
.TP
o
IEEE 802.1Qaz (http://www.ieee802.org/1/pages/dcbridges.html)

.SH NOTES
Currently changing the default priority is not supported by default it
is set to zero.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lldptool (8),
.BR lldpad (8)

.SH AUTHOR
John Fastabend

