.\" LICENSE
.\"
.\" This software program is released under the terms of a license agreement between you ('Licensee') and Intel.  Do not use or load this software or any associated materials (collectively, the 'Software') until you have carefully read the full terms and conditions of the LICENSE located in this software package.  By loading or using the Software, you agree to the terms of this Agreement.  If you do not agree with the terms of this Agreement, do not install or use the Software.
.\"
.\" * Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
.\"
.TH lldpad 8 "March 23, 2012"
.SH NAME
lldpad \- Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP) agent daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lldpad [-h]
.B [-v]
.B [-V]
.B [-d]
.B [-k]
.B [-p]
.B [-s]
.BI "[-f" " filename" "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Executes the LLDP protocol for supported network interfaces.  The list of TLVs currently supported are:
.TP
-
IEEE 802.1AB Mandatory TLVs
.TP
-
IEEE 802.1AB Basic Management TLVs
.TP
-
IEEE 802.3 Organizationally Specific TLVs
.TP
-
LLDP-MED Organizationally Specific TLVs
.TP
-
Data Center Bridging capabilities exchange protocol (DCBX) TLVs
.TP
-
Edge Virtual Bridging (EVB) TLVs
.br
.PP
Capabilities of
.B lldpad
include:
.TP
-
Transmission of LLDP PDUs containing enabled TLVs from enabled ports.
.TP
-
Reception of LLDP PDUs from enabled ports.
.TP
-
Operation of the DCBX protocol for interfaces which support the DCB rtnetlink
interface.  This includes operation of the DCBX state machines above LLDP and
corresponding configuration of the DCB parameters of the network interface.
Supported DCB
features are: Extended Transmission Selection, Priority Flow Control and the
FCoE application.
.TP
-
Configuring the DCB settings of the network driver based on the
operation of DCBX.
.TP
-
Provides a multi-channel interface for client applications to query and
configure features.  Events are also generated on the client interface
to inform clients of changes.  The lldpad package
includes two clients:  lldptool for general LLDP agent management and
dcbtool for DCB management.
.PP

.B lldpad
supports the versions of the DCB capabilities exchange (DCBX) protocol listed as follows:
.TP
version 1 - also known as CIN DCBX
<http://download.intel.com/technology/eedc/dcb_cep_spec.pdf>
.PP
.TP
version 2 - also known as CEE DCBX
<http://www.ieee802.org/1/files/public/docs2008/az-wadekar-dcbx-capability-exchange-discovery-protocol-1108-v1.01.pdf>
.PP
.TP
IEEE DCBX
See the IEEE 802.1Qaz-2011 specification for details.
.PP
IEEE DCBX is the default DCBX mode for a DCB capable interface so the default and configured IEEE DCBX TLVs will be
transmitted when the interface comes up.
.B lldpad
can be globally configured to support one of the legacy DCBX versions (CIN or CEE).  If the remote LLDP agent does not
transmit any IEEE DCBX TLVs and does transmit a legacy DCBX TLV which matches the configured legacy DCBX version, then the
DCBX mode will drop back to legacy DCBX mode.  It will not transition
back to IEEE DCBX mode until the next link reset.  If 
.B lldpad
has dropped back to legacy DCBX mode for a given interface and the daemon is stopped and restarted, the
legacy DCBX mode for that interface will be used instead of starting out in IEEE DCBX mode.  This behavior only applies to the 
case where
.B lldpad
is restarted and is not persistent across a system reboot.  
.PP
See
.B dcbtool
for information on how to globally configure which legacy version of DCBX
.B lldpad
executes.
.PP
See
.B lldptool
for information on how to reset the DCBX mode of an interface back to default (starts out in IEEE DCBX mode).

.B lldpad
also supports edge virtual bridging as currently under specification in the
IEEE 802.1Qb working group.
<http://www.ieee802.org/1/pages/802.1bg.html>

.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.B lldpad
has the following command line options:
.TP
.B \-h
show usage information
.TP
.BI "-f" " filename"
use the specified file as the configuration file instead of the default file:
/var/lib/lldpad/lldpad.conf
.B lldpad
expects the directory of the configuration file to exist, but if the
configuration file does not exist, then a default configuration file will
be created.  lldpad creates and maintains the contents of the configuration
file.  Configuration should be performed by using lldptool or dcbtool.
.TP
.B \-d
run lldpad as a daemon
.TP
.B \-v
show lldpad version
.TP
.B \-V
set lldpad debugging level. Uses syslog debug levels see syslog.2 for details.
.TP
.B \-k
used to terminate the first instance of lldpad that was started
(e.g. from initrd).
Once lldpad -k has been invoked and lldpad has been restarted, subsequent
invocations of lldpad -k will not terminate lldpad.

.TP
.B \-s
remove lldpad state records from shared memory
.TP
.B \-p
do not create PID file /var/run/lldpad.pid on startup
.PP

.SH NOTE
On termination, lldpad does not undo any of the configurations that
it has set. This approach minimizes the risk of restarting the daemon
to perform a software update, or of having storage issues during
shutdown. Ongoing operation of network interfaces that had been
controlled by lldpad may result in unexpected behavior.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dcbtool (8),
.BR lldptool (8),
.BR lldptool-dcbx (8),
.BR lldptool-ets (8),
.BR lldptool-pfc (8),
.BR lldptool-app (8),
.BR lldptool-med (8),
.BR lldptool-vdp (8),
.BR lldptool-evb (8)
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
lldpad - LLDP agent daemon with DCBX support
.br
Copyright(c) 2007-2012 Intel Corporation.
.BR
Portions of lldpad  are based on:
.IP hostapd-0.5.7
.IP Copyright
(c) 2004-2008, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
.LP
.SH LICENSE
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms and conditions of the GNU General Public License,
version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.LP
This program is distributed in the hope it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for
more details.
.LP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin St - Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.LP
The full GNU General Public License is included in this distribution in
the file called "COPYING".
.SH SUPPORT
Contact Information:
open-lldp Mailing List <lldp-devel@open-lldp.org>
