.TH lldptool-dcbx 8 "August 2012" "open-lldp" "Linux"
.SH NAME
DCBX \- Show / manipulate DCBX configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lldptool -t -i ethx -V IEEE-DCBX -c [mode]
.sp
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V IEEE-DCBX mode=reset
.sp
.B lldptool -t -i ethx -V <CIN-DCBX|CEE-DCBX> -c [enableTx]
.sp
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V <CIN-DCBX|CEE-DCBX> enableTx=<yes|no>
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION - DCBX MODE
.B lldpad
supports the following versions of the DCB capabilities exchange (DCBX) protocol:
.TP
CIN DCBX
<http://download.intel.com/technology/eedc/dcb_cep_spec.pdf>
.TP
CEE DCBX
<http://www.ieee802.org/1/files/public/docs2008/az-wadekar-dcbx-capability-exchange-discovery-protocol-1108-v1.01.pdf>
.TP
IEEE DCBX
See the IEEE 802.1Qaz-2011 specification for details."
.PP
IEEE DCBX is the default DCBX mode for a DCB capable interface. Therefore the default and configured IEEE DCBX TLVs will be
transmitted when the interface comes up.
.B lldpad
can be globally configured to support one of the legacy DCBX versions (CIN or CEE).  If the remote LLDP agent does not
transmit any IEEE DCBX TLVs and does transmit a legacy DCBX TLV which matches the configured legacy DCBX version, then the
DCBX mode will drop back to legacy DCBX mode.  It will not transition
back to IEEE DCBX mode until the next link reset.  If 
.B lldpad
has dropped back to legacy DCBX mode for a given interface and the daemon is stopped and restarted, the
legacy DCBX mode for that interface will be used instead of starting out in IEEE DCBX mode.  This behavior only applies to the 
case where
.B lldpad
is restarted and is not persistent across a system reboot.  
.sp
The DCBX mode can be queried and configured by using the special tlvid
.B IEEE-DCBX.
There is not an actual TLV which corresponds to this tlvid.  Its use is to query and reset the IEEE DCBX mode.  When queried,
IEEE DCBX mode can take the following values:

.BR auto " - IEEE DCBX will be used (intially) if lldpad is restarted.  An exception is if the DCBX mode has been forced to a
legacy DCBX mode, then the specified legacy mode will be used.  See information about the 'dcbx' parameter in dcbtool(8) for
more information about this exception."
.sp
.BR CEE " - CEE DCBX will be used if lldpad is restarted"
.sp
.BR CIN " - CIN DCBX will be used if lldpad is restarted"
.sp

The IEEE DCBX mode can be reset to
.B auto
by setting the
.B mode
argument to the value
.B reset

.SH DESCRIPTION - DCBX CONFIGURATION
The detailed configuration of the IEEE DCBX TLVs can be found in related lldptool man pages for each IEEE DCBX TLV (see
lldptool-pfc(8), lldptool-ets(8) and lldptool-app(8)).
.sp
The detailed configuration of the CIN and CEE DCBX TLVs is performed using dcbtool (see dcbtool(8)).  However, lldptool
can configure the enableTx parameter of the CIN and CEE DCBX TLVs (as it can with most other TLVs).  Since lldpad only
transmits TLVs for one version of DCBX on any given interface, the enableTx parameter for the CIN and CEE DCBX TLVs (and
for the IEEE DCBX feature TLVs) takes effect only when the corresponding DCBX version is active.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B mode=reset
Reset the DCBX mode that will be used if lldpad is restarted by setting the mode argument to reset using the
special tlvid IEEE-DCBX.
.TP
.B enableTx
Enable the specified DCBX TLV (CIN-DCBX or CEE-DCBX) to be transmitted in the LLDPDU if that DCBX mode for the specified
interface has been selected.

.SH EXAMPLE & USAGE
.TP
Query the current DCBX mode that will be used if lldpad is restarted. (this is not a persistent setting)
.B lldptool -t -i eth3 -V IEEE-DCBX -c mode

.TP
Reset the DCBX mode to be 'auto' (start in IEEE DCBX mode) after the next lldpad restart
.B lldptool -T -i eth3 -V IEEE-DCBX mode=reset

.TP
Enable transmission of the CEE DCBX TLV 
.B lldptool -T -i eth3 -V CEE-DCBX enableTx=yes

.TP
Disable transmission of the CIN DCBX TLV 
.B lldptool -T -i eth3 -V CIN-DCBX enableTx=no

.TP
Query the configuration of enableTx for the CEE DCBX TLV
.B lldptool -t -i eth3 -V CEE-DCBX -c enableTx

.SH NOTES

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dcbtool (8),
.BR lldptool (8),
.BR lldptool-ets (8),
.BR lldptool-pfc (8),
.BR lldptool-app (8),
.BR lldpad (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Eric Multanen
