.TH lldptool 8 "August 2012" "open-lldp" "Linux"
.SH NAME
PFC \- Show / manipulate PFC TLV configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lldptool -t -i ethx -V PFC [ -c [ enableTx | willing | enabled | delay ] ]
.sp
.B lldptool -T -i ethx -V PFC
.RI < CONFIG_ARG=value " " ... >
.sp
.ti +4
.IR	CONFIG_ARG :=
.sp
.BR		enableTx= "<" yes "|" no ">"
.sp
.BR		willing= "<" yes "|" no "|" 0 "|" 1 ">"
.sp
.BR		enabled= "<" none "|[" 0 ".." 7 "]" , "[" 0 ".." 7 "]" , "...>
.sp
.BR		delay= "<integer value>"
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The PFC TLV is used to display and set current PFC TLV
attributes.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B enableTx
Enable the PFC TLV to be transmitted in the LLDP PDU for the
specified interface.
.TP
.B willing
Display or set the willing attribute. If set to 
.B yes
and a peer TLV is received
then the peer PFC attributes will be used. If set to
.B no
then locally configured attributes are used.
.TP
.B enabled
Display or set the priorities with PFC enabled. The set attribute
takes a comma separated list of priorities to enable, or the
string 
.B none
to disable all priorities.
.TP
.B delay 
Display or set the delay attribute used to configure PFC thresholds in
hardware buffers. If PFC is enabled and frames continue to be dropped
due to full hardware buffers then increasing this value may help.

.SH Theory of Operations
The PFC TLV uses the Symmetric attribute passing state machine
defined in IEEE 802.1Qaz.  This means the attributes
used will depend on the willing bit. If the willing bit is set to 1
and a peer TLV is received then the peers attributes will be used. If the
willing bit is set to 0 the local attributes will be used. When
both the peer and local configuration are willing a tie breaking
scheme is used. For more detailed coverage see the specification.

.SH EXAMPLE & USAGE
.TP
Enable PFC for priorities 1, 2, and 4 on \fIeth2\fR
.B lldptool -T -i eth2 -V PFC enabled=1,2,4
.TP
Disable PFC for all priorities on \fIeth2\fR
.B lldptool -T -i eth2 -V PFC enabled=none
.TP
Display configuration of PFC enabled priorities for \fIeth2\fR
.B lldptool -t -i eth2 -V PFC -c enabled 
.TP
Display last transmitted PFC TLV on \fIeth2\fR
.B lldptool -t -i eth2 -V PFC 
.SH SOURCE
.TP
o
IEEE 802.1Qaz (http://www.ieee802.org/1/pages/dcbridges.html)

.SH NOTES

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lldptool (8),
.BR lldpad (8)

.SH AUTHOR
John Fastabend

